title: Seriousness
author: Toby Pang
date: 2026-03-17
type: theoretical / poetic manifesto
keywords: seriousness, standardization, typography, power, control, media evolution, violence, semiotics, architecture
author_interests: black midi, shoegaze, experimental music, avant-garde theory

SECTION 1

Seriousness is not a calm thing. It is not wisdom, it is not mature.
It is insecure, it removes humor, it eliminates doubt.
It says: this settled, this is rational, and this is right.

SECTION 2

It evades any constraints of rationality just for the sake of being Serious.
It arranges itself like an architecture so complete you feel small inside it. It lurks beside mathematical and geometrical principles that glow with inevitability, stealing their light, hoping that no one will ever question them.

SECTION 3

But Seriousness fears instability the most.
It demands uniformity, requires standardization and needs alternatives to be massacred.

SECTION 4

It needs a medium to carry its intentions, and texts are one of the most fundamental.
They were once carved into stone

The Code of Hammurabi was carved into 4000 kg of basalt.
Four thousand kilograms manufactured by blood and flesh of the slaves, under the command of the Babylonian king.

The slaves carried it
The slaves carved it
And the King only had to speak it.

The stone is not arguing or persuading, it was declaring.
“I command enough bodies to carve morality onto basalt, therefore I command the law.”

SECTION 5

But regimes globalized, there are too many kings trying to discipline too many bodies,
the stone was no longer enough.

Thus, stones turned into printing plates, then sheets of papers, then screens;
and now, they are clouds above our heads.

It no longer weighs four thousand kilograms, It weighs nothing, It floats. It is now everywhere.
It is easier to fix, to standardize, and to kill.

SECTION 6

Letters once were like bodies, they breathed and swelled like muscle and bone. But now they need to be inside of a grid. Those serifs of elegance now look suspicious. Too expressive, too alive and too slow to process.

They must be easily recognized by the neuron networks, fast processed by the human eye, so the commands of the clouds penetrate through every brain and rest itself at the most unconscious place of every mind.

Steriousness does not only slaughter Serifs, it also slaughters lives.

SECTION 7

There were once seven nations in China
And so there were seven ways to write a word.

Ying Zheng, the emperor of the most powerful state, destroyed the rest.
Scholars died for being different.

Arrows and swords pierced their hearts while flames devoured their books
all to have one script for one land.

SECTION 8

So the rules of standardization is simple

Differences must be eliminated,
Humanization must be removed,
One life for one order,
One font for one grid
And finally, one Form for one world

SECTION 9

Each time you see Seriousness staged behind a serious font,
Pause.

Look at the margins.
Look at what has been trimmed so it can look clean

For every standard hides diversities and every grid covers graves of curves.

Reach yourself, to the most unconscious place of your mind
Ask why it looks unquestionable.
And ask what was erased so it could.